cluster resource fetcher for vanilla kube and IBM Cloud (#32)
ComplianceAsCode/auditree-arboretum: arboretum/kubernetes/README.md

list of clusters.  TTL is set to 1 day.
* Configuration elements:
  * `org.kubernetes.cluster_resources.clusters`
    * Required
    * List of dictionaries:
      * `label`: An arbitrary label to specify token in credentials file
      * `server` A URL as a string to a Kubernetes stand-alone cluster
  * `org.kubernetes.cluster_resources.types`
    * Optional
    * List of resource types as strings
      * NOTE: For core group API resources, the resource name must be in
      _plural form_.  See example below.
      * NOTE: For other "custom" API resources, the resource name must be in the
      following format: `"APIGROUP/VERSION/NAME"`.  See example below.
    * Use if looking to override the default of `["nodes", "pods", "configmaps"]`.
    Otherwise do not include.
* Expected configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "org": {
      "kubernetes": {
        "cluster_resources": {
          "clusters": [
            {
              "label": "devcluster1",
              "server": "https://myserver1:30000"
            }
          ],
          "types": ["nodes", "pods", "apigroup.example.com/v1/mycustom"]
        }
      }
    }
  }
   ```

* Required credentials:

>   * A token of a kubernetes service account is required. Following example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * A token of a Kubernetes service account is required. Following example
```

    shows how to create a token bound with a service account.

    ```sh
    $ kubectl create serviceaccount auditree_account # this creates both serviceaccount and its secret
    $ kubectl get serviceaccount auditree_account -ojsonpath='{.secrets[0].name}' | xargs kubectl get secret -ojsonpath='{.data.token}'
    ZXlKaG... # use this string as a token

>     ```

Reviewer: Is auditree_account an example of some sort and how does it correlate with the cluster label from your configuration?  The `#`ed comments don't really provide any help at the moment.  It also seems like the example token you're using here is the same token you reference in the credentials file which I believe maps to the cluster label in your configuration?  If so then it should be clear how we got here from the config and how we get to the credentials file from here.

The docs need to walk the reader through setting up the configuration of this fetcher, the how that configuration ties in to this token creation and then how that token is entered into the credentials file.  The best way to do that is to provide a cohesive story from config write up/example to token generation write up/example to credentials file write up/example.

Author: I updated here as follows; is this clearer than the previous one?

https://github.com/tmishina/auditree-arboretum/blame/9-cluster-resource-fetcher/arboretum/kubernetes/README.md#L62-L93

    In addition, appropriate `get` verbs should be permitted to the service
    account. For example, when the fetcher is configured to fetch `pod`
    resources from a cluster, permit `get` verb for `pod` resources of all
    namespaces in the cluster to the service account by creating
    `clusterrole` and `clusterrolerolebinding`.  For details, see the

>     [Kubernetes RBAC documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

Reviewer: After L102 add:

```
[kube-rbac-docs]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/
```

and then change this line to:

```suggestion
    [Kubernetes RBAC documentation][kube-rbac-docs].
```

Author: updated as your suggestion.

>     * `XXX_token`: token string for a cluster named `XXX`. For example, a token
>       with key `devcluster1_token` is used for the cluster `devcluster1`.

Reviewer: This is still unclear.  I _think_ you mean that the cluster's "label" as it is set in the configuration is what "XXX" correlates to.  Suggest changing this to:

```suggestion
    * `cluster_label_token`: a token string for the cluster label value from your configuration. Using the expected 
    configuration from above as an example, a token named `devcluster1_token` is an expected credential.
```

    * Example credential file entry:

      ```ini
      [kubernetes]

>       devcluster1_token=ZXlKaG...
>       devcluster2_token=YKaFdx...

Reviewer: Since you've only supplied "devcluster1" in your expected configuration from above then that's all that should be in this example entry.  We do this so that the documentation can tell a consistent story and hopefully is useful to  the reader.  I also don't think the actual token value example is a good one.  It either needs to be an actual example of a token or just some wording that communicates that the reader should replace "this" with the actual token value in the credentials file.  Suggest:

```suggestion
      devcluster1_token=my-devcluster1-token
```

      _plural form_.  See example below.
      * NOTE: For other "custom" API resources, the resource name must be in the
      following format: `"APIGROUP/VERSION/NAME"`.  See example below.
    * Use if looking to override the default of `["nodes", "pods", "configmaps"]`.
    Otherwise do not include.
* Expected configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "org": {
      "kubernetes": {
        "cluster_resources": {
          "clusters": [
            {
              "label": "devcluster1",
              "server": "https://myserver1:30000"
            }
          ],
          "types": ["nodes", "pods", "apigroup.example.com/v1/mycustom"]
        }
      }
    }
  }
   ```

* Required credentials:
  * A token of a Kubernetes service account is required.
    * `cluster_label_token`: a token string for the cluster label value from
      your configuration. Using the expected configuration from above as an
      example, a token named `devcluster1_token` is an expected credential.
    * Example credential file entry:

      ```ini
      [kubernetes]
      devcluster1_token=my-devcluster1-token
      ```

    * The token (`"my-devcluster1-token"` in the example above) can be

>       generated by following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Using `my-devcluster1-token` from the example above, the token can be
      generated by following these steps.
```

## Fetchers

### Cluster Resource

* Class: [ClusterResourceFetcher][fetch-cluster-resource]
* Purpose: Write the resources of **stand-alone** Kubernetes clusters to the
evidence locker.  **NOTE:** Do not use this fetcher for managed clusters.
Instead use the [IBM Cloud cluster list fetcher][ibm-cloud-cluster-list-fetcher].
* Behavior: Retrieve stand-alone Kubernetes cluster resource data for the provided
list of clusters.  TTL is set to 1 day.
* Configuration elements:
  * `org.kubernetes.cluster_resources.clusters`
    * Required
    * List of dictionaries:
      * `label`: An arbitrary label to specify token in credentials file
      * `server` A URL as a string to a Kubernetes stand-alone cluster
  * `org.kubernetes.cluster_resources.types`
    * Optional
    * List of resource types as strings
      * NOTE: For core group API resources, the resource name must be in
      _plural form_.  See example below.
      * NOTE: For other named group resources including custom API
        resources, the resource name must be in the following format:
        `"APIGROUP/VERSION/NAME"` (You can find this triplet by
        `kubectl api-resources` and `kubectl api-versions`). See example

>         below.

Reviewer: I don't see any example below using `kubectl api-resources` or `kubectl api-versions`.

## Fetchers

### Cluster Resource

* Class: [ClusterResourceFetcher][fetch-cluster-resource]
* Purpose: Write the resources of **stand-alone** Kubernetes clusters to the
evidence locker.  **NOTE:** Do not use this fetcher for managed clusters.
Instead use the [IBM Cloud cluster list fetcher][ibm-cloud-cluster-list-fetcher].
* Behavior: Retrieve stand-alone Kubernetes cluster resource data for the provided
list of clusters.  TTL is set to 1 day.
* Configuration elements:
  * `org.kubernetes.cluster_resources.clusters`
    * Required
    * List of dictionaries:

>       * `account name`: An arbitrary IBM Cloud account name as a string

Reviewer 2: This should not be IBM Cloud specific, I think. Perhaps this field could be called `label` or `namespace`. Something general that could be applicable to any cloud provider. We only need to make sure it matches with what it is used in the credentials file.

Author: two stuffs:
1. the document contains "IBM Cloud", but it does not care about cloud service provider.  So I removed this description
2. changed the term `account` to `label` as you suggested, thanks. `namespace` or `name` would confuse kubernetes experts and thus I avoid using them.

      * `server` A URL as a string to a Kubernetes stand-alone cluster
  * `org.kubernetes.cluster_resources.types`
    * Optional
    * List of resource types as strings
      * NOTE: For core group API resources, the resource name must be in
      _plural form_.  See example below.
      * NOTE: For other "custom" API resources, the resource name must be in the
      following format: `"APIGROUP/VERSION/NAME"`.  See example below.
    * Use if looking to override the default of `["nodes", "pods", "configmaps"]`.
    Otherwise do not include.
* Expected configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "org": {
      "kubernetes": {
        "cluster_resources": {
          "clusters": [
            {

>               "account": "myaccount1",

Reviewer 2: Perhaps this would be a better example:

```
"label": "dev"
```

Author: I use `devcluster1` and '`devcluster2` for example.

              "server": "https://myserver1:30000"
            }
          ],
          "types": ["nodes", "pods", "apigroup.example.com/v1/mycustom"]
        }
      }
    }
  }
   ```

* Required credentials:
  * Kubernetes API server token with read/view permissions are needed for this fetcher to successfully retrieve the evidence.
    * `XXX_token`: token string for account `XXX`.
    * Example credential file entry:

      ```ini
      [kubernetes]
      myaccount1_token=your-kubernetes-api-token-1
      myaccount2_token=your-kubernetes-api-token-2
      ```

    * Expected Travis environment variable settings to generate credentials:
      * `KUBERNETES_MYACCOUNT1_TOKEN`

>       * `KUBERNETES_MYACCOUNT2_TOKEN`

Reviewer 2: I would explain how you get the token here. Is the token really permanent? I thought it would expire eventually.

Author: I added descriptions including persistency of token.
https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/auditree-arboretum/pull/32/files#diff-ab8d1d49d0939d2f9104b162f9cf493635b8dc57fff06c0e7f5dcdf8883c6f2bR66

* Behavior: Retrieve stand-alone Kubernetes cluster resource data for the provided
list of clusters.  TTL is set to 1 day.
* Configuration elements:
  * `org.kubernetes.cluster_resources.clusters`
    * Required
    * List of dictionaries:
      * `label`: An arbitrary label to specify token in credentials file
      * `server` A URL as a string to a Kubernetes stand-alone cluster
  * `org.kubernetes.cluster_resources.types`
    * Optional
    * List of resource types as strings
      * NOTE: For core group API resources, the resource name must be in
      _plural form_.  See example below.
      * NOTE: For other "custom" API resources, the resource name must be in the
      following format: `"APIGROUP/VERSION/NAME"`.  See example below.
    * Use if looking to override the default of `["nodes", "pods", "configmaps"]`.
    Otherwise do not include.
* Expected configuration:

  ```json
  {
    "org": {
      "kubernetes": {
        "cluster_resources": {
          "clusters": [
            {
              "label": "devcluster1",
              "server": "https://myserver1:30000"
            }
          ],

>           "types": ["nodes", "pods", "apigroup.example.com/v1/mycustom"]

Reviewer: Is your intent to apply the `cluster_resources.types` to all `cluster_resources.clusters` supplied?  Would there ever be a need to allow for different types per cluster?

Author: I talked about this with Simon and as a result we decided as is.  As far as I remember, the intent is simplification.  This fetcher does not throw exception even if a type is not defined in a cluster (ignoring the error), and therefore a user can specify superset to this config parameter (e.g., if attempting fetching `"pod"` from cluster A and fetching `"mycustom"` custom resource from cluster B, a user should specify `["pod","mycustom']` here, and ignore "pod" of cluster B and ignore "mycustom" of cluster A.

        }
      }
    }
  }
   ```

> 

Reviewer: remove one blank line here

Author: done. also removed an empty line from the end of the file.

* Required credentials:

>   * Kubernetes API server token with read/view permissions are needed for this fetcher to successfully retrieve the evidence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Kubernetes API server token with read/view permissions is needed for this fetcher to successfully retrieve the evidence.
```

    The token can be extracted from local kubeconfig file (usually stored in `~/.kube/kubeconfig`) or a secret of a service

>     account.  Latter is recommended because it is persistent while the former one is periodically revoked.  Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    account.  The latter is recommended because it is persistent while the former is periodically revoked.  Example:
```

    type `kubectl create sa auditree_account`) to create a new service account for auditree processes, bind it with
    appropriate role/clusterrole by rolebinding/clusterrolebinding, and then type

>     `kubectl get secret auditree_account_XXXX -o json | jq .data.token` to get the token where `XXXX` is a random string.

Reviewer: I don't really understand what you're saying here.  First off, you have a close parenthesis `)` without an open parenthesis and then it appears as though you're partly providing an example of commands to execute and partly describing what to enter.  I think if you provide general wording of what the "latter" really means (describing what to do) and then follow that up with a `sh` block with the example commands then that would make this easier to understand.

Author: I refined the documentation as follows. Could you take a look at this? https://github.com/tmishina/auditree-arboretum/commit/473101406c0f2ebbc40e079f07e5abca820a1164

    * `XXX_token`: token string for account `XXX`.
    * Example credential file entry:

      ```ini
      [kubernetes]
      devcluster1_token=your-kubernetes-api-token-1
      devcluster2_token=your-kubernetes-api-token-2

>       ```

Reviewer: You also lost me when you went from `XXX` to `devcluster1`.  You should clean this up and make it more clear.

Author: for this, I updated the description as follows.
https://github.com/tmishina/auditree-arboretum/commit/df1c2c077982aae57707287f97d77416a610b952

    * Expected Travis environment variable settings to generate credentials:
      * `KUBERNETES_DEVCLUSTER1_TOKEN`

>       * `KUBERNETES_DEVCLUSTER2_TOKEN`

Reviewer: We're also not providing Travis environment variable examples in arboretum.  Remove this.

Author: removed.

## Fetchers

### Cluster Resource

* Class: [KubeClusterResourceFetcher][fetch-cluster-resource]

> * Purpose: Write the resources of stand-alone kubernetes clusters to the evidence locker (for managed clusters, other cluster list fetcher and cluster resource fetcher can be used such as for [IBM Cloud](ibm-cloud-cluster-list-fetcher)).

Reviewer: There's no cluster resource fetcher only a cluster list fetcher under the `ibm_cloud` vendor.

```suggestion
* Purpose: Write the resources of **stand-alone** Kubernetes clusters to the evidence locker.  **NOTE:** Do not use this fetcher for managed clusters.  Instead use the [IBM Cloud cluster list fetcher][ibm-cloud-cluster-list-fetcher].
```

> * Behavior: Read a cluster list from `raw/auditree/compliance_config.json` and fetch resources from  specified in the cluster list.

Reviewer: I believe that the cluster list is read from the configuration not the evidence. Suggest:

```suggestion
* Behavior: Retrieve stand-alone Kubernetes cluster resource data for the provided list of clusters.  TTL is set to 1 day.
```

    * Required
    * List of account name and server URL for a kubernetes cluster 
  * `org.kubernetes.cluster_resource.target_resource_types`
    * Optional (default: `["nodes", "pods", "configmaps"]`)
    * List of fetch-target resource types
      * NOTE (1): for core group API resources, the resource name must be in _plural form_ like `pods`
      * NOTE (2): for other types of API resources such as a custom resource, the resource name must be the following format: `"APIGROUP/VERSION/NAME"` (e.g., `"apigroup.example.com/v1/mycustom"`)
* Expected configuration example of `raw/auditree/compliance_config.json`:

  ```json
  {
    "org": {
      "kubernetes": {
        "cluster_list": [
          {
            "account": "myaccount1",
            "server": "https://myserver:30000"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
  ```

* Expected configuration example of configuration file:

  ```json
  {
    "org": {
      "kubernetes": {
        "cluster_resource": {
          "target_resource_types": [
            "nodes", "apigroup.example.com/v1/mycustom"
          ]
        }
      }
    }
   }

>    ```

Reviewer: Should be combined.
